# Dealing with Voice Assistants Can be Frustrating...BY JOEY LU 22nd of November 2024

Recently, I had an interaction with Siri that left me extremely frustrated. The goal was quite simple: set a timer for a hour and 10 minutes. I swiped up on my phone to open onto the home screen. I held down my power button until Siri came online. Then I confidently stated, "Please set a timer for a hour and 10 minutes." Instead of responding with "Now setting a timer for a hour and 10 minutes", Siri responded with "Did you mean a hour and 10 minutes?'. I confirmed with "Yes, a hour and 10 minutes." AGAIN, Siri responded with "Do you want to set a timer for a hour and 10 minutes?". I was really shocked with how many times I had to clarify myself to have Siri keep asking for confirmation. This interactions highlights a signficiant issue in user experiece: a lack of **effective** communication between the user and the device. Siri failed to accurately interpret my command, which lead to an unpleasant user experience of going back-and-forth. The lack of **efficiency** during the interaction wasted time and failed my expectations. In addition, Siri did not align up with my **mental model** of how a voice assistant is supposed to function and provide the user with a satisfying experience. I expected Siri to understand a simple task and be able to execute it without any difficulty. This result of my expectation versus Siri's failure to complete a request led to much frustration. I believe to improve user experience for future use, voice assistant devlopers should start focusing on creating more robust language models that are able to more accurate;y interpret user queries. With technology so advanced these days, Siri or any other voice assistants should provide concise and clear **feedback** to users to avoid any unnecessary frustration and questions.
